---
title: RPC over HTTP Connection is Not Allowed
author: bradhugh
ms.author: bradhugh
manager: tpolitis
audience: ITPro 
ms.topic: article 
ms.service: remote-connect-tool
ms.localizationpriority: medium
description: Learn how to handle the "RPC/HTTP connections for this client are prohibited" error
ms.date: 05/08/2020
---

# RPC over HTTP Connection is Not Allowed

</div>

<div id="mainSection">

<div id="mainBody">

<span> </span>

_**Topic Last Modified:** 2011-02-10_

The Microsoft Remote Connectivity Analyzer attempts to log on to the Information Store using RPC over HTTP. If the error returned by the information store is ecRpcHttpDisallowed, then the Microsoft Remote Connectivity Analyzer tool returns the following error.

"RPC/HTTP connections for this client are prohibited"

<div>

## For More Information

The error generated by Microsoft Remote Connectivity Analyzer isn't necessarily indicative of a problem. Prohibiting clients from connecting using RPC over HTTP is a legitimate configuration option. However, if you ran Microsoft Remote Connectivity Analyzer because you have Outlook clients who are unable to successfully connect using RPC over HTTP or Outlook Anywhere, then you will need to modify the setting that prohibits clients from connecting using this method.

To determine whether RPC over HTTP or Outlook Anywhere is enabled for your Exchange 2007 or Exchange 2010 mailbox, run the following command from the Exchange Management Shell:

`Get-CASMailbox MailboxName | FL MAPIBlockOutlookRpcHTTP`

If the command returns $true, then you must enable Outlook Anywhere for the Exchange 2007 mailbox by using the following command:

`Set-CASMailbox MailboxName -MAPIBlockOutlookRpcHTTP:$false  `

For more information, see [When You Use Outlook With an Exchange 2007 Mailbox, You Cannot Connect to Exchange 2007, and You Receive an Error Message](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=100100).

The Microsoft Remote Connectivity Analyzer has limited documentation at this time. In an effort to improve the documentation for each of the errors you might receive, we would like to solicit additional information from the community. Please use the Community Content section below to post additional reasons why you failed at this point. If you need technical assistance, please create a post in the appropriate [Exchange TechNet forum](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=73420) or contact [support](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=8158).

</div>

<div>

## See Also

#### Other Resources

[Set-CASMailbox](https://technet.microsoft.com/library/bb125264.aspx)  
  

</div>

</div>

<span> </span>

</div>

</div>

</div>

